We've already made extensive use of variables,
and we've seen how essential they are in programming.
In this video,
we'll move on to look at a rave variables These variables,
which allow you to store a related set of values rather than a single value,
like the variables we've seen so far before.
We start coded Let's have a look,
a diagram that illustrates the difference between scaler for ordinary variables and array
variables that's going to the Exercises folder and then into the Section five folder
Conditional Loops in a race.
And here you'll find a ray Variables diagram,
which is an Excel file.
Variables would work with so far,
have all held a single value,
and they have all been unrelated,
so variable one might hold a document variable to my oldest string value and so forth.
There are times,
however,
where you need to store a series of elements which have some relationship to one another.
For example,
you might want to store the names of a series of documents that you need to work with.
You might want to store a series of email addresses,
stories of any set of related values,
and this is where an array comes in.
So here we have three arrays.
The 1st 1 holds 10 values.
The 2nd 1 holds eight and the third ones designed to hold an indeterminate number of values
,
and this is called a dynamic array.
We'll talk about dynamic arrays in the next video.
In this video,
we'll deal with what are called fixed arrays,
where you specify the number of elements that the you're able hold when you declare it as
we'll see when you declare an array,
there are two ways of specifying its dimension.
Each element within an array.
It's identified by an index.
So here we have index one in next to and so forth.
When you declare a fixed array,
you specify the lower and upper limits.
You can either do this explicitly.
I was here,
so we've said the first item is itin one and the last ice in his light,
and 10 there will have 10 items,
and they're clearly numbered.
So this item is light in five,
and it has an index of five.
There's a second way of specifying the dimension,
which is to use a single dunder in parentheses after the name of the Array When you do this
,
you're specifying the upper limit and V b A.
Then supplies the default lower limit.
However,
the default lower limit is zero rather than one.
So if I place that seven in parentheses,
it's equivalent to saying 0 to 7 lower limit zero couple in its seven.
So here this is the fifth element in my array,
but it will have an index of full for clarity.
It's usually best to use this style of declaration explicitly specifying the lowest index
on the highest index,
and this is the style that will use during these tutorials.
Okay,
so let's now have a look at coded.
We'll go back to the main Exercises folder and into our word VB,
a training template that's going to model five and let's rise our first macro.
So in this example,
well,
right on macro,
which stools an array of branches will then look through our ray and compare the name of
the bronze that the users entered with the branches in our array.
If there's no match,
we won't give them access to our application.
Otherwise we will So sub s 0506 a.
Now let's call it Validation.
Maya Array.
Let's that move across the procedure view and let's begin by declaring our variables.
So first of all,
we'll need a variable to store the users.
Answer.
Let's call this past,
er,
to use a branch that's straight.
Then we'll need an array variable off branches.
Let's say for argument's sake that there are five branches.
Let's use an A to indicate that it's an array.
Str to indicate that it's a string on branches and the important thing we remember is in
parentheses after that name.
We then say lower limit or first index,
which will say is one to upper limit,
which will say it's fine.
And then we put a strength.
Let's then populates the array.
Did you do that?
We just target each index so it's a str branches brackets,
one equals,
And of course,
we've defined it as a strength.
So in double quotes,
we put the first brunch.
Let's say London than str branches to Manchester
and that's it.
Now let's also use it to enter their branch look And of course,
we used input box.
We now need to loop through our array and compare each value with the value entered by the
user.
So to do the loop,
let's just go back to the top and then I as integer.
And then let's use I as the counter in our Luke.
So for I equals Now,
we know that the lowest index is one and the highest in Nexus five.
But of course,
as our code develops,
that may well change.
So when you're living through an array,
there are two very useful functions that you can use to calculate automatically.
The lowest index on the highest index and they are hell bound and you bound.
So l bound a str branches to you bounds Nastya punches on.
Then let's close it with next I.
We now need the next statement to test whether or not there's a match.
And it would also be useful to have a 1,000,000,000 value in which we could store true or
false to indicate whether or not we found a match.
So let's go back and declare one of those said a dimmer PLN found as 1,000,000,000.
When you declare a 1,000,000,000 variable,
it is automatically initialized with the value false.
So inside our looped,
if we find a match will change it to truth once the loop ends.
If BLN found is still false.
That indicates that we haven't found the match.
So let's Jarek statement So here we want to test each value in str branches with str user
Branch the value entered by the user This comparison will be case sensitive.
So in fairness to the user,
a simple trick is to convert both items being compared to exactly the same case.
We can do this using either you case or l case on both elements.
That way the case that they use actually uses when entering the branch will be completely
ignored.
So let's go for you case So it's gonna be a few case s t ah,
using branch equals you case a str bronzes and then in brackets weaken say I to target eat
elements within the array because of course I will change constantly as we go through the
loop then and all we've got to do inside the loop is to set bln.
I found equal to truth.
Another simple thing you can do.
It's too exit the four loop not particularly important here because you've only got five
elements.
But if we had 500 we found a match when I was equal to two.
There would be no point in doing the remaining 498 tests on and if one solid has finished,
we simply test BLN found.
If it's true,
we know there's been a match so we can say if BLN found equals truth men on a street box.
Welcome to the act else mystery box.
Sorry from recognised,
I think.
And so let's test.
We'll save on Run on.
I've got a typo here on branches.
Let's try again.
So let's try and erroneous one.
First of all,
let's say they're working this Ponzi Sorry.
Brunch Not recognized.
Let's try it with one of base on will enter it in lower case deliberately and then we get
welcome to the APP